Welcome back in this lecture we're going to talk about flask migrate.
We just showed how to create a database and then perform crud create read up and delete using Flast
sequel alchemy.
Now describe how to utilize migrations when creating a model for a database table.
You're going to sometimes need to make adjustments that model inside your python file such as adding
a new column.
However just updating that Python script isn't going to automatically update the database.
So upon making these changes we need to migrate these changes in order to update the actual sequence
database table.
And we can do this with flask migrate which you can install with Pip install flask migrate.
This allows us to make adjustments in our model class and then make sure they actually take effect in
the real SQL database and there are four main commands used at the command line.
In order to perform this migration the first thing to do in order to make sure everything works is to
set the flask app environment variable.
This allows Flast migrate to no attraction that PI script is your flask application and the command
is slightly different depending on what operating system you using.
If you on a Mac OS or Linux you're going to say export and then all caps flask underscore app is equal
to and then the name of the python script that actually holds your flask application.
In Windows what you needs to do is say set and then flask app is equal to my app that.
Or again whatever your flask application happens to be called when you run these two lines.
You need to make sure they are in the same directory as the actual Python script.
Otherwise your command line will say you can't find the file which makes sense because you need to be
in the same directory in order to run that command.
If you don't set the flask up then you're going to get an error and it'll say something like could not
locate flask application.
Either not provide the flask at environment variable.
So if you ever get this error make sure you perform either one of these two lines depending on your
operating system and you can make sure to check the migrations underscore instructions.
Text file for a full text explanation of not just these commands but all the commands we show during
the lecture.
Once you set your flask application where you can do as are these three following commands.
And so we start off with flask D-B in it and that basically sets up the migrations directory.
Then we'll say flask.
D.B migrate dash em and whatever your messages so that sets up the migration file and once you've done
that you can say flask DBI upgrade that actually updates the database with the migration so to break
down these three main steps we first actually set up a directory folder for our migrations.
Then once you've actually made a change toward database we need to set a migration file so we say Flast
the B migrate and then the dash and flag that stands for message and then you can report back what message.
That way you can check the history of your migrations and you can understand what you changed.
So maybe your message could be added column to the puppy table.
So that's the migration file to actually perform the migration.
You say then flask.
DBI upgrade which then goes to migration file and performs the upgrade.
Essentially updating the table inside of your sequel database OK.
Let's get an idea of how to perform all of this by jumping over to our text editor.
OK here and at my text editor.
These are the same files and folders we were working with last time.
Well we need to start off with is actually adding the capabilities of migration to our application and
the way we do that is just by adding a couple of lines here.
After you've done Pip install Flast migrate or if you're using a requirements text file you should already
have flask migrate.
You're going to type out from flask underscore migrate import and then you're going to import this migrate.
Remember you can just Pipp install flask migrates.
It's going to be a capital F dash capital M there but you should already have it in your requirements
text file.
Once we have imported this migrate class what we can do is we can connect this application that we created
here on line with this database from sequel alchemy and the way we do that is the following.
We just say migrate.
You pass in your application and then you pass in your database and this connects the application with
the database in order to add on migration capabilities to run those terminal commands.
And this is all we need to do so far.
And the reason we do this is because even though we've already set up our model class here will you
make any adjustments to this model class such as adding a new column and we run this basic thought py
file again.
Our data its sequel lite database that's already been created.
So we're not going to be able to register the new migration of a new column without using Flast migrate.
Technically there are ways to do it in a very manual fashion but it's much much easier by just using
Flast migrate.
So we've imported migrate from flask migrate and then we've connected the application to the database.
So let's save this and then we're going to come down to our command line and we first need to actually
set our flask app.
So because I'm on a Windows computer I use set as my key word here.
If you're on a Mac OS or Linux you're going to use export I'm on Windows so I will say set flask underscore
at equal to and then you just need to set it equal to whatever the python script files called that's
holding this flask application.
In my case I've called it basic thought Pi so I'll say set my flask app equal to basic thought by the
enter and you shouldn't see any output there.
Remember Mac OS or Linux are going to use export.
Once we've set that up it's time to actually initiate and set up our migrations directory essentially
creating a folder for us.
So I will say now flask D-B in its hit enter and then you should see a couple of lines here.
Things like generating a bunch of files or directories and appear at the top.
Now you should see now a migrations folder with a bunch of stuff in it that's now going to allow us
to connect this application with the database and very easily run migrations.
So your migrations are going to go and say that migration is directory.
And the next step for this is to actually create a migration command.
So we do this by saying flask D-B migrates and then technically that's all you need to run.
But usually it's better to leave yourself a little migration message that way when you look at the history
of your migrations you can understand what you did for each one.
Some subjoin say dash em and I will say created puppy table and used double quotes there.
Hit enter and that creates a migration file.
Now that migration has actually been executed so all we have there is a migration with a unique ID.
And then what we need to do is actually run the migration.
So this is very analogous to using GET AS and get commit and then get push.
So if you're familiar get maybe this feels a little familiar to you.
If not no worries.
We're just going to now say flask D-B and then upgrade hit enter.
And this will now upgrade and perform the migration for us.
OK so now that we've performed the migration we've seen the changes in the stop basic postscript to
our actual sequel light database so to show you a more realistic example we're going to do is add a
column to her model.
So let's go here to puppie the B model and then we have an ID column a name column and an age column.
I'm now going to add a breed column say breed is equal to D-B column and this will just be text D-B
text.
So I've added a column to my model and I can do that here by taking name age.
Also take brede and say self-taught breed is equal to breed.
Now that I have updated my Python script model with this new column I should create a migration and
then upgrade that database to effect the change.
So the way this works is will say flask D.B migrate dash em and then give yourself a message that you
understood what changes you did in our case.
I'll say something like added Breede column create that migration file so that migration file is now
underneath your migrations directory and then to actually upgrade the database to effect the changes.
I just say flask.
DBI upgrade and that's successfully upgraded the database.
So now it matches up with the model I created here in my Python script.
OK.
That's really the basics of using Flast migrate in order to keep your actual sequel light database connected
and updated to your model or models that play file or your application file.
Coming up next we're going to continue our discussion of databases including relationships between two
models.
We'll see you at the next lecture.